=====
P4008
=====

.. problem-summary:: P4008

This error occurs when a variable is declared as constant but does not define an initial value.

A ``CONSTANT`` declaration tells the compiler that the variable's value
is fixed and known at compile time. The compiler folds references to the
constant into the value itself and rejects assignments to it at runtime.
Because the value can never change after declaration, the only opportunity
to give the variable a value is at the declaration site — omitting the
initializer leaves the constant with no defined value, which IEC 61131-3
does not permit.

This rule applies to every variable section that accepts the ``CONSTANT``
qualifier, including ``VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT`` at configuration scope,
top-level ``VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT`` (vendor extension), and ``VAR CONSTANT``
inside a POU.

Example
-------

The following code will generate error P4008:

.. code-block::

   VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT
       ResetCounterValue : INT;  (* Error: CONSTANT variable must have initializer *)
   END_VAR

The variable ``ResetCounterValue`` is declared as ``CONSTANT`` but does not have an initial value assigned.

To fix this error, provide an initial value for the constant variable:

.. code-block::

   VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT
       ResetCounterValue : INT := 17;  (* Correct: CONSTANT variable has initializer *)
   END_VAR

The same rule applies to constants declared inside a POU. The following
``VAR CONSTANT`` block also triggers P4008 because ``MaxRetries`` has no
initializer:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION_BLOCK Retrier
   VAR CONSTANT
       MaxRetries : INT;  (* Error: CONSTANT variable must have initializer *)
   END_VAR
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

Adding ``:= 3`` to the declaration resolves the error.

See Also
--------

- :doc:`/reference/language/variables/initial-values` — initializer syntax and semantics
- :doc:`/reference/language/variables/scope` — variable sections that accept ``CONSTANT``
- :doc:`P4009` — ``CONSTANT`` qualifier on function block instances
- :doc:`P4031` — constant referenced in a type parameter is not an integer type
- :doc:`P4032` — constant referenced in a type parameter has no initializer
