=====
P4013
=====

.. problem-summary:: P4013

This error occurs when a POU (Program Organization Unit) declaration name is duplicated within the same scope.

IEC 61131-3 places all POU types — ``PROGRAM``, ``FUNCTION``, and
``FUNCTION_BLOCK`` — in a single shared namespace within a project. Two
POUs cannot share a name even when they are different kinds of POU,
because a call site references the name without restating the kind. The
compiler also has no way to choose between two definitions, so the
duplicate is rejected at parse time rather than later during call
resolution.

Note that this rule applies across all source files compiled together,
not only within a single file. Unlike many languages, IEC 61131-3 does
not support overloading by signature — only one POU may bind to a given
name.

Example
-------

The following code will generate error P4013:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION_BLOCK MyFunction
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

   FUNCTION_BLOCK MyFunction  (* Error: Duplicate POU name *)
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

The function block ``MyFunction`` is declared twice, which is not allowed.

To fix this error, ensure all POU names are unique within their scope:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION_BLOCK MyFunction1
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

   FUNCTION_BLOCK MyFunction2  (* Correct: Different name *)
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

The conflict is also raised across POU kinds. The following code
collides a ``FUNCTION`` with a ``FUNCTION_BLOCK`` of the same name and
still produces P4013:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION Compute : INT
   END_FUNCTION

   FUNCTION_BLOCK Compute  (* Error: name collides with the FUNCTION above *)
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

Rename one of the POUs (for example, ``ComputeResult`` and
``ComputeBlock``) to resolve the conflict.

See Also
--------

- :doc:`/reference/language/pous/index` — POU kinds and declaration syntax
- :doc:`/reference/language/pous/function` — ``FUNCTION`` declarations
- :doc:`/reference/language/pous/function-block` — ``FUNCTION_BLOCK`` declarations
- :doc:`P4014` — symbol (variable) declaration name duplicated
- :doc:`P4015` — user-defined type collides with a standard-library type
- :doc:`P4016` — function declaration name duplicated
