=====
P4016
=====

.. problem-summary:: P4016

This error occurs when a function declaration name is duplicated within the same scope.

In IEC 61131-3, every ``FUNCTION`` lives in a single global function
namespace shared with the standard library. The standard does not
provide signature-based overloading, so two ``FUNCTION`` declarations
with the same name are always ambiguous regardless of their parameter
lists or return types. The compiler reports P4016 at the second
declaration rather than waiting for a call site to disambiguate, which
would be impossible.

P4016 is the function-specific counterpart to :doc:`P4013` (which covers
duplicates among any POU kind, including programs and function blocks).
It is raised specifically when both declarations are ``FUNCTION``\ s.
If a user-defined function shadows a standard-library function, the
compiler instead reports :doc:`P4015`.

Example
-------

The following code will generate error P4016:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION MyFunction : INT
   END_FUNCTION

   FUNCTION MyFunction : INT  (* Error: Duplicate function name *)
   END_FUNCTION

The function ``MyFunction`` is declared twice, which is not allowed.

To fix this error, ensure all function names are unique within their scope:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION MyFunction1 : INT
   END_FUNCTION

   FUNCTION MyFunction2 : INT  (* Correct: Different name *)
   END_FUNCTION

Note that changing the return type or the parameter list of one of the
duplicates does **not** resolve the error, because IEC 61131-3 does not
permit overloading. The two declarations below still produce P4016:

.. code-block::

   FUNCTION Scale : INT
   VAR_INPUT v : INT; END_VAR
   END_FUNCTION

   FUNCTION Scale : REAL  (* Error: same name, different signature is still a duplicate *)
   VAR_INPUT v : REAL; END_VAR
   END_FUNCTION

Give each function a distinct name (for example, ``ScaleInt`` and
``ScaleReal``) instead of relying on overloading.

See Also
--------

- :doc:`/reference/language/pous/function` — ``FUNCTION`` declaration syntax
- :doc:`/reference/standard-library/functions/index` — names reserved by the standard library
- :doc:`P4013` — POU declaration name duplicated (programs, function blocks)
- :doc:`P4014` — symbol (variable) declaration name duplicated
- :doc:`P4015` — user-defined type collides with a standard-library type
