=====
P4032
=====

.. problem-summary:: P4032

This error occurs when a constant name is used in a type parameter (such as a ``STRING`` length or array bound) but the referenced constant does not have an initializer value.

Type parameters are resolved at compile time, so the compiler must know
the constant's value at the moment it constructs the type. Without an
initializer the compiler has no value to substitute, and the type
``STRING[MAX_LEN]`` or ``ARRAY[1..MAX_LEN] OF T`` cannot be sized. P4032
is therefore raised at the **use site** in the type parameter even when
the declaration itself would otherwise be tolerated.

P4032 is closely related to but distinct from :doc:`P4008`: P4008 is
emitted at the constant's declaration when ``CONSTANT`` is missing an
initializer, while P4032 is emitted where such a constant is referenced
inside a type parameter. A program may see both errors for the same
constant — one at the declaration and one at every use site that
requires a known value.

Example
-------

The following code will generate error P4032:

.. code-block::

   VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT
       MAX_LEN : INT;
   END_VAR

   FUNCTION_BLOCK MyFB
   VAR_INPUT
       name : STRING[MAX_LEN];
   END_VAR
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

The constant ``MAX_LEN`` is declared without a value. To fix this error, provide an initializer:

.. code-block::

   VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT
       MAX_LEN : INT := 100;
   END_VAR

The same fix applies when the constant is used as an array bound.
The declaration below triggers P4032 at the ``ARRAY`` declaration
because ``CAPACITY`` has no value:

.. code-block::

   VAR_GLOBAL CONSTANT
       CAPACITY : INT;  (* No initializer *)
   END_VAR

   FUNCTION_BLOCK Ring
   VAR
       slots : ARRAY[1..CAPACITY] OF INT;  (* Error: bound has no value *)
   END_VAR
   END_FUNCTION_BLOCK

Adding ``:= 32`` (or any integer literal) to ``CAPACITY`` resolves the
error and lets the compiler determine the array's size.

See Also
--------

- :doc:`/reference/language/variables/initial-values` — initializer syntax
- :doc:`/reference/language/data-types/elementary/string` — ``STRING`` length parameter
- :doc:`/reference/language/data-types/derived/array-types` — array bound expressions
- :doc:`P4008` — ``CONSTANT`` variable missing an initializer (declaration site)
- :doc:`P4030` — constant referenced in a type parameter is not defined
- :doc:`P4031` — constant referenced in a type parameter is not an integer type
