=====
P6009
=====

.. problem-summary:: P6009

This error occurs when the output of :program:`ironplcc compile` refers to an
input source file. Writing the compiled container would replace the source
text, so the compiler rejects the path before opening the output file.

Example
-------

The following command uses :file:`main.st` as both the input and the output:

.. code-block:: console

   ironplcc compile main.st --output main.st

Choose a different output path so the source file remains unchanged:

.. code-block:: console

   ironplcc compile main.st --output main.iplc

Why the Compiler Rejects the Path
---------------------------------

The compiler writes a binary container after it finishes parsing, analysis,
and code generation. Creating the output file truncates it first, so opening
an input source as the destination would discard the program before any
container bytes are written. The command could otherwise report success even
though the original source had been lost.

IronPLC compares the resolved files rather than the path text. Using an
absolute path for one argument and a relative path for the other, or referring
to the source through a symbolic link, therefore does not bypass the check.
Existing output files that do not refer to an input source are still
overwritten as usual.

Directory Projects
------------------

The same rule applies to files discovered from a project directory. This
command is rejected when :file:`project/main.st` is one of the discovered
sources:

.. code-block:: console

   ironplcc compile project --output project/main.st

Write the container outside the source set instead:

.. code-block:: console

   ironplcc compile project --output project/main.iplc

See Also
--------

- :doc:`P6001 <P6001>` explains failures while resolving a path.
- :doc:`Compiler command line </reference/compiler/ironplcc>` describes
  compiler actions and arguments.
