=====
P9999
=====

.. problem-summary:: P9999

Analyzing the IEC 61131-3 source failed because the source contains elements
that are not supported by this compiler. The elements are probably valid.

Because the compiler does not support the elements, the solution normally
requires adding support for the elements to the IronPLC compiler.

* avoid the particular elements (this is usually not feasible)
* verify that you have the latest version of the IronPLC compiler
* report the program so support can be added (see below).

Reporting the program
---------------------

We can only add support for an unsupported capability once we can see the
program that needs it. Sending us the program gives the best results, so please
do — there are two ways, and no GitHub account is required:

* **From the** `IronPLC Playground`_ **(easiest).** When a program produces
  P9999, a **Submit Code** button appears next to the diagnostic. Clicking it
  sends the program directly to the IronPLC team.
* **As a** `GitHub issue`_. Attach the source file (or paste it) so we can
  reproduce the problem.

.. note::

   Whichever route you choose, the program you submit is shared with the
   IronPLC team and **may become public** — for example in a GitHub issue.
   Do not submit anything confidential.

Known Limitations
-----------------

The following features are not yet supported in code generation and will
produce this error:

* ``ARRAY`` element access
* ``STRUCT`` member access
* ``FUNCTION_BLOCK`` with SFC bodies
* ``STRING`` pass-by-reference (``VAR_IN_OUT``)
* Direct variables (hardware-mapped I/O such as ``%IX0.0``)
* Enumerated values in expressions and ``CASE`` selectors

.. _IronPLC Playground: https://playground.ironplc.com/
.. _GitHub issue: https://github.com/ironplc/ironplc/issues/new?template=todo_report.md
